
		By unanimous vote, the minutes of the meeting of the Federal
Open Market Committee held on November 13, 1996, were approved.
		The Manager of the System Open Market Account reported on developments in foreign exchange markets since the meeting on November 13, 1996.  There were no transactions in foreign currencies for System account during this period, and thus no vote was required of the Committee.
		The Manager also reported on developments in domestic
financial markets and on System open market transactions in government
securities and federal agency obligations during the period from
November 13, 1996, through December 16, 1996.  By unanimous vote, the
Committee ratified these transactions.
	  	The Committee members discussed certain changes in the
procedures for conducting domestic open market operations that the
Manager of the System Open Market Account had proposed for
implementation at the beginning of 1997.  The changes included
advancing the normal time for initiating daily operations by one hour
to between 10:30 a.m. and 10:45 a.m.  Moving to the earlier time would
place Desk operations closer to the period during the day when the
financing market was most active and thus in a position to accommodate
a larger volume of System transactions when necessary.  As at present,
the Manager might choose to undertake Desk operations at other times
during the day when special circumstances dictate.  The Manager also
indicated that the normal time for domestic operations might be moved
to an even earlier hour after expedited procedures were developed for
assembling the necessary statistical information on a timely basis for
such operations.  In the interest of making information about System
operations available more promptly to market participants and the
broader public, the Desk also would begin at the start of 1997 to
announce the par amount of its market transactions shortly after the
completion of the operations.  With respect to purchases of Treasury
coupon securities for System account, the Desk had adopted about one
year ago the practice of making such purchases in separate maturity
tranches but might at its option in the future spread such purchases
over a number of weeks rather than over the course of several days.
This more flexible timing would allow the Desk to inject reserves into
the banking system through outright operations as the need arose
without waiting for that need to accumulate to particularly high
levels.
	