
		By unanimous vote, the minutes of the meeting of the Federal
Open Market Committee held on November 12, 1997, were approved.

		The Manager of the System Open Market Account reported on
developments in foreign exchange and international financial markets
in the period since the previous meeting on November 12, 1997.  There
were no open market transactions in foreign currencies for System
Account during this period, and thus no vote was required of the
Committee.

	 	The Manager also reported on developments in domestic financial
		markets and on System open market transactions in government
securities and federal agency obligations during the period November
12, 1997, through December 15, 1997.  By unanimous vote, the Committee
ratified these transactions.

		The Committee then turned to a discussion of the economic
outlook and the conduct of monetary policy over the intermeeting
period ahead.

	    The information reviewed at this meeting suggested that
economic activity had continued to grow at a rapid pace in recent
months.  The further advance reflected moderating but still sizable
increases in business fixed investment and consumer spending and an
upturn in business inventory accumulation.  Housing demand remained at
a high level, and deepening trade deficits provided only a partial
offset to the strength in domestic spending.  Against this background,
employment and production posted further large gains.  Price inflation
remained subdued despite tight labor markets and some pickup in the
rate of wage increases.

	    Nonfarm payroll employment rose sharply further in October and
November.  The increases in payrolls were widespread across sectors,
and in November they included notably large gains in the service-
producing industries.  Manufacturing employment also rose considerably
further in November, and aggregate weekly hours of production or
nonsupervisory workers registered a particularly large advance in that
month.  The civilian unemployment rate fell to 4.6 percent in
November, its low for the current expansion.

	    Industrial production continued to advance at a brisk pace in
October and November.  The November increase was widespread across
market groups.  It featured particularly strong growth in the
production of durable goods, including a surge in the output of motor
vehicles and parts.  Partly offsetting the strength in the manufacturing
 sector in November was a decline in mining activity and in
utilities output after two months of robust expansion.  The large rise
in production boosted the rate of utilization of manufacturing
capacity to its highest level in more than two years.

	    Growth in consumer spending had moderated in recent months
from a very brisk pace during the summer.  Retail sales were unchanged
on balance over October and November after having increased rapidly in
the third quarter.  The flat sales for the two months reflected some
softening in the durable goods category, notably at automotive
dealers, and relatively slow growth in the nondurable goods sector.
Consumer spending on services appeared to have remained relatively
robust in October.  According to recent surveys, consumer sentiment
remained at an extraordinarily ebullient level in the context of
continuing strong gains in jobs and incomes, the cumulative effect of
large increases in household net worth, and the ready availability of
financing for most consumers.

	    Available information suggested that business capital
expenditures had moderated in recent months from the exceptionally
strong increases of the second and third quarters.  Shipments of
office and computing equipment fell in nominal terms in October,
while shipments of communications equipment were about unchanged after
having posted strong gains earlier in the year.  Shipments of
nondefense capital goods other than aircraft and high-tech equipment
also declined in October.  Spending on nonresidential structures had
softened a bit in recent months.

	    In the housing sector, demand had continued to display
appreciable strength in recent months in association with relatively
moderate mortgage rates and very positive consumer assessments of
homebuying conditions.  In October, the latest month for which data
were available, sales of new homes were well maintained, and sales of
existing homes rose.  Housing starts increased somewhat in October and
November from the already high level reached earlier in the year.

	    After picking up considerably in September, the pace of
business inventory investment in October remained above that recorded
earlier in the summer.  The rise in stocks at the manufacturing level
was at a somewhat faster pace in October than in September, but the
buildup in inventories at the wholesale level, and especially at the
retail level, moderated in October.  On balance, inventories remained
at quite low levels in relation to shipments and sales.

	    The nominal deficit on U.S. trade in goods and services was
significantly larger in the third quarter than in the second.  Exports
of goods and services rose only marginally in the third quarter, as
increases in machinery, industrial supplies, and service receipts were
nearly offset by sharp declines in exports of aircraft and gold.
Imports of goods and services rose appreciably in the third quarter;
the increases were in most major trade categories and included strong
further advances in the quantity of oil imports.  Economic growth in
most major foreign industrial countries was relatively vigorous in the
third quarter, and preliminary indicators for the fourth quarter
suggested continued above-trend expansion.  However, growth since
midyear appeared to have recovered only modestly in Japan from a sharp
second-quarter decline.  The ongoing financial turmoil affecting a
number of Asian economies had led to a significant slowdown in
economic activity in the region.  Available data also suggested a
favorable economic performance in major Latin American countries in
the third quarter.

	    Consumer price inflation had remained at a low level in recent
months, reflecting a variety of influences including a favorable labor
cost environment, falling import prices, small increases in energy
prices, and declining inflation expectations.  For the twelve months
ended in November, overall consumer prices and consumer prices
excluding food and energy items increased appreciably less than in the
year-earlier period.  At the producer level, prices for finished goods
edged lower in November and the index was down somewhat on balance
over the past year, reflecting declines in the food and energy
components.  The rate of increase in average hourly earnings had
picked up in recent months, apparently reflecting the effects of an
increase in the federal minimum wage and some bidding up of wages in a
tight labor market.

	     At its meeting on November 12, 1997, the Committee had
adopted a directive that called for maintaining conditions in reserve
markets that were consistent with an unchanged federal funds rate
averaging around 5-1/2 percent.  In the directive the Committee had
retained a tilt toward a possible firming of reserve conditions during
the intermeeting period.  Such a bias had been seen as consistent with
the members' views that the risks continued to be skewed toward rising
inflation and that the next policy move was more likely to be in the
direction of some firming than toward easing.  Reserve market conditions associated with this directive had been expected to be consistent with some moderation in the growth of M2 and M3 over coming
months.

	