
		In the agenda for this meeting, it was reported that advices
of the election of the following members and alternate members of the
Federal Open Market Committee for the period commencing January 1,
1997, and ending December 31, 1997, had been received and that the
named individuals had executed their oaths of office.

		The elected members and alternate members were as follows:


William J. McDonough, President of the Federal Reserve Bank of New
    York, with Ernest T. Patrikis, First Vice President of the Federal
    Reserve Bank of New York, as alternate;

J. Alfred Broaddus, Jr., President of the Federal Reserve Bank of
    Richmond, with Cathy E. Minehan, President of the Federal Reserve
    Bank of Boston, as alternate;

Michael H. Moskow, President of the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago,
    with Jerry L. Jordan, President of the Federal Reserve Bank of
    Cleveland, as alternate;

Jack Guynn, President of the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta, with
    Thomas C. Melzer, President of the Federal Reserve Bank of St.
    Louis, as alternate;


Robert T. Parry, President of the Federal Reserve Bank of San
    Francisco, with Thomas M. Hoenig, President of the Federal Reserve
    Bank of Kansas City, as alternate.


	By unanimous vote, the following officers of the Federal Open
Market Committee were elected to serve until the election of their
successors at the first meeting of the Committee after December 31,
1997, with the understanding that in the event of the discontinuance
of their official connection with the Board of Governors or with a
Federal Reserve Bank, they would cease to have any official connection
with the Federal Open Market Committee:


  Alan Greenspan,                   	Chairman
  William J. McDonough,	Vice Chairman

  Donald L. Kohn,	Secretary and Economist
  Normand R. V. Bernard,	Deputy Secretary
  Joseph R. Coyne,	Assistant Secretary
  Gary P. Gillum,	Assistant Secretary
  J. Virgil Mattingly, Jr.,	General Counsel
  Thomas C. Baxter, Jr., 	Deputy General Counsel
  Michael J. Prell,	Economist
  Edwin M. Truman,	Economist

  Jack H. Beebe, Robert A. Eisenbeis,
   Marvin S. Goodfriend, William C. Hunter,
   David E. Lindsey, Frederic S. Mishkin,
   Larry J. Promisel, Charles J. Siegman,
   Lawrence Slifman, and David J. Stockton, 	Associate Economists


	By unanimous vote, the Federal Reserve Bank of New York was
selected to execute transactions for the System Open Market Account
until the adjournment of the first meeting of the Committee after
December 31, 1997.
	By unanimous vote, Peter R. Fisher was selected to serve at
the pleasure of the Committee as Manager, System Open Market Account,
on the understanding that his selection was subject to being
satisfactory to the Federal Reserve Bank of New York.


         Secretary's note:  Advice subsequently was received
         that the selection of Mr. Fisher as Manager was
         satisfactory to the board of directors of the Federal
         Reserve Bank of New York.


	By unanimous vote, the Authorization for Domestic Open
Market Operations shown below was reaffirmed.

Authorization for Domestic Open Market Operations

  1. The Federal Open Market Committee authorizes and directs the
Federal Reserve Bank of New York, to the extent necessary to carry out
the most recent domestic policy directive adopted at a meeting of the
Committee:


     (a) To buy or sell U.S. Government securities, including
securities of the Federal Financing Bank, and securities that are
direct obligations of, or fully guaranteed as to principal and
interest by, any agency of the United States in the open market, from
or to securities dealers and foreign and international accounts
maintained at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, on a cash,
regular, or deferred delivery basis, for the System Open Market
Account at market prices, and, for such Account, to exchange maturing
U.S. Government and Federal agency securities with the Treasury or the
individual agencies or to allow them to mature without replacement;
provided that the aggregate amount of U.S. Government and Federal
agency securities held in such Account (including forward commitments)
at the close of business on the day of a meeting of the Committee at
which action is taken with respect to a domestic policy directive
shall not be increased or decreased by more than $8.0 billion during
the period commencing with the opening of business on the day
following such meeting and ending with the close of business on the
day of the next such meeting;

     (b) When appropriate, to buy or sell in the open market, from or
to acceptance dealers and foreign accounts maintained at the Federal
Reserve Bank of New York, on a cash, regular, or deferred delivery
basis, for the account of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York at
market discount rates, prime bankers acceptances with maturities of up
to nine months at the time of acceptance that (1) arise out of the
current shipment of goods between countries or within the United
States, or (2) arise out of the storage within the United States of
goods under contract of sale or expected to move into the channels of
trade within a reasonable time and that are secured throughout their
life by a warehouse receipt or similar document conveying title to the
underlying goods; provided that the aggregate amount of bankers
acceptances held at any one time shall not exceed $100 million;

     (c) To buy U.S. Government securities, obligations that are
direct obligations of, or fully guaranteed as to principal and
interest by, any agency of the United States, and prime bankers
acceptances of the types authorized for purchase under l(b) above,
from dealers for the account of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York
under agreements for repurchase of such securities, obligations, or
acceptances in 15 calendar days or less, at rates that, unless
otherwise expressly authorized by the Committee, shall be determined
by competitive bidding, after applying reasonable limitations on the
volume of agreements with individual dealers; provided that in the
event Government securities or agency issues covered by any such
agreement are not repurchased by the dealer pursuant to the agreement
or a renewal thereof, they shall be sold in the market or transferred
to the System Open Market Account; and provided further that in the
event bankers acceptances covered by any such agreement are not
repurchased by the seller, they shall continue to be held by the
Federal Reserve Bank or shall be sold in the open market.


  2. In order to ensure the effective conduct of open market
operations, the Federal Open Market Committee authorizes and directs
the Federal Reserve Banks to lend U.S. Government securities held in
the System Open Market Account to Government securities dealers and to
banks participating in Government securities clearing arrangements
conducted through a Federal Reserve Bank, under such instructions as
the Committee may specify from time to time.

  3. In order to ensure the effective conduct of open market
operations, while assisting in the provision of short-term investments
for foreign and international accounts maintained at the Federal
Reserve Bank of New York, the Federal Open Market Committee authorizes
and directs the Federal Reserve Bank of New York (a) for System Open
Market Account, to sell U.S. Government securities to such foreign and
international accounts on the bases set forth in paragraph l(a) under
agreements providing for the resale by such accounts of those
securities within 15 calendar days on terms comparable to those
available on such transactions in the market; and (b) for New York
Bank account, when appropriate, to undertake with dealers, subject to
the conditions imposed on purchases and sales of securities in
paragraph l(c), repurchase agreements in U.S. Government and agency
securities, and to arrange corresponding sale and repurchase
agreements between its own account and foreign and international
accounts maintained at the Bank.  Transactions undertaken with such
accounts under the provisions of this paragraph may provide for a
service fee when appropriate.

	With Mr. Broaddus dissenting, the Authorization for Foreign
Currency Operations shown below was reaffirmed.
